all right we're going to see this go
it's been a
while
but I realized from last
time but pretty
much the other computer algebra systems
that I was doing are just the wrong way
to do things and it's symbolic approach
is correct so I've basically
made a
minimal
a minimal wolf from
kernel
uh that allows me to do basic stuff
right now there's some
notable missing things and there's tons
of features that I have no plan to
implement but if I just do
this um I guess the first thing to do is
it's it's not an M expression as Ma
matica does it but it's uh s Expressions
just cuz the parser is so simple you can
look at the parser this whole thing is
like 500 lines of
code but it's basically
just
oh just this 10 five whatever rules or
so um here my numerics is pretty much
just not thought out at all I don't
really care about that because
uh I'm not going to do numerics right
now so like for instance I don't even
have one plus one in my language but I
will say
um this thing bit me yesterday crazy
it's actually like a big bump it wasn't
a mosquito it's like some
weird
thing uh this is the expression type so
there's basically four atoms and then a
list expression
I have ins reals and then one thing of
note is that I have to do this so that I
can derive eek and partial eek cuz
otherwise nans are
like not good if I do is that a thing
can I just do that I don't
know is that a
thing well whatever it may be uh
oh damn I just realized now how itchy
this thing is it's kind of crazy all
right whatever let's kill this I don't
care about that uh but the there is a
basic Alias function and I guess I
should probably walk through some
of
uh this
code
um
also I'm on this Windows computer and
the battery life is just atrocious so
this 2 hours is probably going to amount
to like 30
minutes it's so
brutal but
whatever uh I can use things like set X
to
one and I can get X and so that's a
basic feature the the issue is that this
is own values and I don't have down
values so if I were to do
set F here let
me C that's to
one I right now I just have this check
that says that set takes a symbol and so
I return a symbol that just says okay we
failed in doing
that
[Music]
um I'm sort of fine with that for
now you know I might buy an extension
cord just so I can plug into that thing
it's kind of annoying cuz I'm like
taking up the whole park but it's like
this is such a great place to
work
that there's an outlet like 30 feet from
me and this guy charges his phone here
every
day I think it'd be pretty sick cuz then
I wouldn't have to worry about
it all right uh let's keep
going uh um but so the the the whole
purpose of this language that I'm
building was actually to start to study
combinators and I just thought it was so
cool that you
can
um you can basically reduce combinators
super simply in wol from language just
like this and so so far this is
basically what I've implemented the
issue here is that since I use S
Expressions I need some code to
translate this big long on M expression
into s expression and I have a bunch of
this done by
hand but for now I'm just going to
show down in my
tests actually if I just do set C rules
so the so these are the equivalent
definitions of the combinator rules so
you can see here right there's all of
these amazing infix patterns that wolam
language uses how do I just make this
never whatever I don't give
um but it has all this amazing
stuff so like x blank x blank d sugars
to if I just do
X
let's see how's
my well I don't know maybe the
resolution is low I don't know yet um
but x blank if I just do this full form
I mean of course everything just lowers
to an S expression in the end so I don't
really have any desugaring syntax or
infix syntax so you really have to write
pattern X
blank
uh uh I guess the main thing of note
actually is if we were just to say set P
to
um um p uh pattern x
blank let's say
XB oh one thing if you look closely you
can see that I did implement the print
pares thing so it does at least help me
out a little bit cuz s Expressions the
parentheses just get totally
disgusting uh but then at least I
implemented match Q so I can say you
know list a b c to XB and we get true
and then luckily we can we can do this
even more where we can say pattern x
blank
list and we get true but if I change
this to F then we get false
so we have a basic pattern match that
can at least function on the heads and
we can take this further so if I were to
um take this expression this ends up
being this
ssk expression ends up being the and uh
the combinator form of the and operator
the Boolean and and so it turns out
that um in
here
uh s
k false and K is true so it turns out
that this is just like a way to do
Boolean logic and logic in
general uh with combinators and it's
super cool because is in Boolean
logic you need sort of to get
universality you sort of
need three things you need zero you need
true you need false and then you need n
you sort of need three things but what's
interesting
about in Boolean project you need three
things to
do
everything can you implement a unary
knot with nand I'm sure you
can yeah you just ignore the second one
[Music]
um what's cool about
combinators is you only need two
things s k
combinat everything else is up to
interpretation so that that's what's
really cool is that like if you just
happen
to think of S and S applied K applied to
S as false and K is true then you can do
everything uh and it turns out there's a
formulation for integers and you can do
math with them and all that
um so let's let's do an
example um so here we're doing and and
so we could do set and to
um to
um s of s
k and then we can do replace all replace
repeated which is this equivalent to SL
SL dot in
W so we going to replace repeated and of
k
k uh with our C rules which are
combinator rules and oh I must have set
X to something so this
is right right
because that's actually interesting we
should try that so if I do x = 1 and I
do
this
but if I
do pattern X so it's because because if
we look at the attributes of pattern
we're going to see that it's hold first
yeah so I was right and let me zoom in
for for everyone how do I do
that okay so we can see it's hold first
so we need to so the problem and I'll
get to the main evaluation
Loop
um and I'm going to I think in future
streams uh get much more inde depth with
how the evaluation order works and I
hope this see it's already at 144 just
dying like
crazy
um but
whatever
I really wish there was an outlet then
that' be so
cool
um but so I've been following this
book
uh what is it called uh
vogner
that's way
before working with held
expressions
H that's interesting okay but I'm
getting ahead of myself we want
to get to section
yeah okay so this is the main evaluation
Loop this is basically the sketch that I
use to do
everything and I
skip
I skip all of this stuff about
hold and I don't do any any of this
attribute stuff yet and so the purpose
actually of today was to try to look
into how to do in about uh to
implementing
this but I think for now
we want to at least get a good
description of what's going on but so
the problem here is that this didn't
evaluate correctly
because
um because X got evaluated and we didn't
leave it as is and so that's obviously
an issue uh I want to look quickly at
the docs for clear and see how they
differ from clear
all clear does not clear attributes
default options or
message
okay so this does
everything damn this bug bite sucks okay
so we should Pro so I guess this is a
good intro
to how we might
Implement a new internal function and
you can see here that this is pretty
cringe and I'll probably have to just
completely redo
it um but I don't know I mean when we
get to down values and sub values after
we do the attribute system we'll have to
reevaluate how this should actually work
but right now right now it gets me far
enough with reducing commentators that
I'm like pretty happy with it actually
but so
[Music]
um so let's just make a basic um clear
function uh and I think
clear clear see yeah I guess one other
thing to note that I don't have is the
only blank that I have is blank I don't
have um blank null
sequence or anything implemented so that
will have to so for now I'm just going
to make clear take a single
symbol
so
um
so right now just basically I'm going to
copy this
over format it I'm going say
string
uh we want to
say
uh it takes a expression so we actually
want to give
it
uh this
thing
um so what happens what is clear return
does clear just
return what does it
return okay we're still live that's
pretty
[Music]
cool
clear returns probably
no so let's just test something
out
yeah uh yeah we can
say if let
some
uh
[Music]
T can I just do
that
uh else we didn't do anything and then
we just return S
no can changing this binding type to
the can I do
that oh wait I think I have to do I
think this is a I have to do
that
okay so now if I start the thing
over uh and then I do set X1 and then I
do clear
X ah yeah that's see that's not going to
work
because
interesting
the other issue with this is that
there's no place to go to the
bathroom Okay so the problem with this
is that once we've already hit this
we've already evaluated all the
arguments so this is just not going to
work
okay so that was a good uh little thing
to look
at okay
this crashed theam I think
yeah
what happens if I do that
here
now we're just making a little bit more
robust
uh
it's
[Music]
now
I guess I could say x equals
this damn I don't know what the hell is
up put
that I don't know what's up with
that
for
okay so now we should be able to just
do
this and we get a little message and we
get a fail
and I could actually do set X of this
and X is failed now we need clear but
all right before it go for the time
being let's just do this set C
rules thing
set set
and okay then what we want to do is
Place repeated uh and k
k of C rule we get K now if we change
this to S of K we get
S then if we change this to
SK we also get SK and then if we change
this for our last case to K we got s k
so here we've
successfully reduced the combinator for
and in all possible cases of the truth
table so I think that's
he banging
my chin on this metal bar under this
table it makes no
sense why is that bar there who's going
to crush the table horizontally like
that okay
whatever um so here I have some pseudo
code that corresponds to
um
to
this and I
guess one issue is okay so attributes
needs to come first that's first and
foremost so if we were to just think
about how to do an attribute
system I
mean it's kind of interesting right
because it seems like we need down
values before we have attributes but I
could just manually put them
into my table for down values of
attributes this is how I plan to
implement it is
that attributes that I just search the
whole list for a matching one it seems
like
internally attribute system is not
implemented just down values of the
attribute head but anyways I gotta pee
I'll be back
he